EZP-30924: Content query Field Type (#896)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/controllers.md

}

```

### Content query Field Type

The [Content query Field Type](../api/field_type_reference.md#content-query-field-type)

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Author: To my mind your version implies that the query is configured per Content item, as in: the editor can set some parameters when creating content, and that could be IMO confusing.

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Reviewer: Well, there is the field definition you configure, and there is what the field gives you as a result. The field is what you want to _achieve_ (the task), while the field definition is the _mean_ to the task (the feature). Do you see what I mean ?

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Author: Actually, the task is getting results of a query... but let's not get into details here, I've updated the description.

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Reviewer: > let's not get into details here

When do we get into details if not now ? ;)

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Author: I'm happy to discuss the information architecture of our doc with you, but that is hardly within the scope of this PR.

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Reviewer: I did not mean to question the architecture in itself, relax :-)

But I need to insist on the fact that the query field is, the way I see it, really meant to be THE way to expose children and generally speaking content items that relate to another by means of a given query. The goal is to make the query controller and custom controller the _advanced_ ways do that, not the regular ones.

> enables you to get query results in a Content item's Field.

Author: Now that's clear, as we're planning to reorganize the content rendering section, including the controllers page in the upcoming sprints, we'll expose the FT as the leading method to do it then.

Use it by adding a Content query Field Type to your Content Type.

Select a predefined [Query Type](#query-controller) from a list
and provide the parameters that are required by the Query Type, e.g.:

```
parentLocationId: '@=mainLocation.id'
```

> You can also select the Content Type of items you want to return in the **Returned type** dropdown.

Author: But if the query does not filter on Content Type, you can just go with whatever is selected by default in the UI, as it will not change the results?

> You can also select the Content Type of items you want to return in the **Returned type** dropdown.

Reviewer: No, it won't change the results. It is important that the query filters, either by hardcoding the requirement (`GalleryImagesQueryType`) or through a parameter.

We can't reliably make it automatic. Even if a parameter exists for that, we can't know what the name is. We could I suppose standardize a parameter name or set of names that will automatically be mapped to the returned type if found.

In the meantime, we must insist on that aspect: the query that gets executed may ONLY return items of type `returnedType`.

```
contentType: '@=returnedType'
```

The following variables are available in parameter expressions:

- `returnedType` - the identifier of the Content Type selected in the **Returned type** dropdown
- `content` - the current Content item
- `contentInfo` - the current Content item's ContentInfo
- `mainLocation` - the current Content item's main Location

#### Content query Field Type view

Configure the Content query Field Type's view using the `content_query_field` view type:

``` yaml
content_view:
    content_query_field:
        blog_posts:
            match:
                Identifier\ContentType: blog
                Identifier\FieldDefinition: posts
            template: "blog_posts.html.twig"
```

Query results are provided to the template in the `items` variable:

``` html+twig
{% for item in items %}
    {{ render(controller("ez_content:viewAction", {
        "contentId": item.id,
        "content": item,
        "viewType": itemViewType
    })) }}
{% endfor %}
```

The default view type is `line`, defined under `itemViewType`.
You can change it by passing a different view to `viewType` in the template.

> You can also define a different view type globally by overriding the default `parameters.ezcontentquery_item_view` parameter.

Reviewer 2: For multiple reasons (e.g it forces us to keep BC promise on this parameter), I'm against documenting it at all. Is there is any other way to provide this configuration?

Besides that the parameter name is incorrect. 

```suggestion
You can also define a different view type globally by overriding the default `ezcontentquery_item_view` parameter.
```

But for multiple reasons (e.g it forces us to keep BC promise on this parameter), I'm against documenting it at all. Is there is any other way to provide this configuration?

Reviewer: I don't disagree about not documenting it. The daily usage will be by providing a different view type from a custom template anyway.

}

```

### Content query Field Type

The [Content query Field Type](../api/field_type_reference.md#content-query-field-type)
enables you to configure a content query that will use parameters from a Field definition.
The results will be available in a Content item's Field.

Use it by adding a Content query Field Type to your Content Type.

> Select a predefined [Query Type](#query-controller) from a list

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Select a pre-defined [Query Type](#query-controller) from a list
```
